{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red146\green26\blue32;\red82\green38\blue1;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;\cssrgb\c40000\c20000\c0;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 19, 1897.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Karl (Theodor Wilhelm) Weierstrass 
\f2\fs28 \cf3 \cb4 (1815-1897)
\f1\fs32 \cf0 \cb2  died. He was a German {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Weierstrass.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 mathematician}} who is known as the "father of modern analysis" for his rigour in analysis led to the modern theory of functions, and considered one of the greatest mathematics {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Weierstrass"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 teachers}} of all-time. He was doing mathematical research while a secondary school teacher, when in 1854, he published a paper on Abelian functions in the famous 
\f3\i Crelle Journal
\f1\i0 . The paper so impressed the mathematical community that he shortly received an honorary doctorate and by 1856, he had a University appointment in Berlin. In 1871, he demonstrated that there exist continuous functions in an interval which have no derivatives nowhere in the interval. He also did outstanding work on complex variables. \

\f2\fs28 \cf3 \cb4 Among many other contributions, Weierstrass formalized the definition of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_function"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 continuity of a function}}, proved the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intermediate_value_theorem"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 intermediate value theorem}} and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolzano%E2%80%93Weierstrass_theorem"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Bolzano\'96Weierstrass theorem}}, and used the latter to study the properties of continuous functions on closed bounded intervals.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  Moriva oggi Karl Weierstrass(1815-1897), matematico tedesco nonch\'e9 una delle figure pi\'f9 interessanti della matematica tedesca dell\'92800. \
Verr\'e0 ricordato per sempre come uno dei migliori insegnanti di matematica, iniziando la sua carriera appunto dalle scuole superiori tedesche. Come secondo lavoro si dedica alla ricerca e pubblica nel 1854 uno straordinario lavoro sulle funzioni abeliane sulla famosa rivista \'93Crelle Journal\'94. Il lavoro impression\'f2 a tal punto la comunit\'e0 scientifica che nel 1856 gli venne assegnato un dottorato ad honorem e una cattedra all\'92Universit\'e0 di Berlino. \
Nel 1871 arriver\'e0 uno dei suoi risultati pi\'f9 sbalorditivi: esistono funzioni continue in un intervallo che non ammettono derivate in nessun punto all\'92interno dell\'92intervallo. \
Tra i tanti contributi che diede alla matematica, Weierstrass si concentr\'f2 sopratutto sulle funzioni continue in un intervallo limitato (teorema di Bolzano-Weierstrass, definizione di continuit\'e0 di una funzione, teorema dei valori intermedi) ma si occup\'f2, tra le altre cose, anche di funzioni complesse e analitiche.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}