{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 2, 1970\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) was born. He was a 
\f2\fs32 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Welsh mathematical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Biographies/Russell.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 logician}}, analytical philosopher and writer. He worked to establish foundations of mathematics and developed contemporary formal logic. He is known for Russell's paradox (concerning the set of all sets that are not members of themselves), his theory of types, and his contributions to the first-order predicate calculus. He believed in logicism, the theory that mathematics was in some important sense reducible to formal logic. With Alfred Whitehead, he co-authored 
\f3\i Prinicpia Mathematica
\f2\i0 (1910). Russell is regarded as one of the most important logicians of the twentieth century. He was active in social and political campaigns, and advocated pacifism and nuclear disarmament. The Nobel Prize for Literature was awarded to Russell in 1950.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Bertrand Russell (1872-1970), logico e scrittore gallese. Ha dato fondamentali contributi per stabilire le fondamenta della matematica e per lo sviluppo della moderna logica formale. \'c8 conosciuto specialmente per il paradosso di Russell, riguardante gli insiemi che non possono essere elementi di se stessi. Insieme a Alfred Whitehead \'e8 autore dei Principia Mathematica (1910) e dedic\'f2 gli ultimi anni della sua vita alla divulgazione scientifica e all\'92attivismo politico e pacifista. Ricevette il premio Nobel per la Letteratura nel 1950. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}