{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1\b  December 17, 1907\
\

\f0\b0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1\b  On this day, Baron William Thomson Kelvin (1824-1907) died. He was an
\f2\b0  Irish physicist, mathematician and engineer who became an influential physicist, who has been described as the Newton of his era. Born as William Thomson in Ireland. At Glasgow University, Scotland, he was a professor for over half a century. The name he made for himself was more than just a temperature scale. His activities ranged from being the brains behind the laying of a transatlantic telephone cable, to attempting to calculate the age of the earth from its rate of cooling. In 1892, when raised to the peerage as Baron Kelvin of Largs, he had chosen the name from the Kelvin River, near Glasgow. He is often described as a Scottish scientist because of his life career spent in Glasgow, but late in life, in a lecture in 1883, he referred to himself as an Irishman. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  Moriva oggi, all\'92et\'e0 di 83 anni, il Barone William Thomson Kelvin (1824-1907). \'c8 stato un fisico, matematico e ingegnere irlandese che divenne uno dei fisici mondiali pi\'f9 influenti della storia, conosciuto anche come \'93il Newton della sua era\'94. Nato come William Thomson in Irlanda, fu professore all\'92Universit\'e0 di Glasgow (Scozia) per pi\'f9 di 50 anni. Le sue ricerche e attivit\'e0 spaziavano dall\'92essere la mente dietro il primo telefono transatlantico, al cercare di estimare l\'92et\'e0 del pianeta Terra dal suo tasso di raffreddamento.\
\
Nel 1892, una volta elevato al titolo nobiliare di Barone Kelvin di Largs, scelse il suo nome dal fiume Kelvin, vicino a Glasgow. \'c8 spesso ricordato come scienziato scozzese per il numero di anni che pass\'f2 a Glasgow, ma pi\'f9 avanti nella sua vita, in una lezione nel 1883, si defin\'ec come irlandese.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci}