{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Today is the birthday of Marie Curie
\f1\b0  (1867-1934).\
Marie Sklodowska Curie was a Polish-French chemist and physicist whose celebrated experiments (1898) on uranium minerals led to discovery of two new elements. First she separated polonium, and then radium a few months later. The quantity of radon in radioactive equilibrium with a gram of radium was named a curie. With {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/12/12_15.htm#BecquerelHenri"}}{\fldrslt Henri Becquerel}} and her husband, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/5/5_15.htm#CuriePierre"}}{\fldrslt Pierre Curie}}, she was awarded the 1903 Nobel Prize for Physics. Later, she also was sole winner of a second Nobel Prize in 1911, this time in Chemistry. Her family won five Nobel awards in two generations. She died of radiation poisoning from her pioneering work before the need for protection was known.\
\
\'c8 oggi il compleanno di Marie Curie(1867-1934), leggendaria fisica e chimica polacca, naturalizzata francese. Con il marito, riusc\'ec a scoprire svariati elementi riuscendo a separare il Polonio (prima) e l\'92Uranio pochi mesi dopo. Fu la prima donna a vincere il Premio Nobel e giusto per non farsi mancare nulla ne vinse anche un secondo (prima in Fisica e poi in Chimica). \'c8 al momento una delle pochissime persone ad aver vinto il Nobel per due volte e l\'92unica donna. La sua famiglia vinse, in totale, 5 Premi Nobel spaziando due generazioni. \
\
I suoi lavori pionieristici sui materiali radioattivi sono anche stati anche tragicamente la causa della sua morte. \
\
\'c8 ad oggi considerata una delle pi\'f9 grandi scienziate donne della storia, se non la pi\'f9 grande.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia\
 }