{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2509
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Today is the birthday of the UNESCO. In 1946, in fact,
\f1\fs32 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Constitution became effective. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.unesco.de/c_english/unesco.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 UNESCO}} charter was signed by 37 states in London on 16 Nov 1945. The Preamble of its Constitution declares: "Since wars begin in the minds of men it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed." It {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.unesco.org/general/eng/about/memberschro.shtml#j"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 currently}} has 188 Member States and 5 Associate Members. Its main objective is to contribute to peace and security in the world by promoting collaboration among nations through education, science, culture and communication. UNESCO provides for the advancement, transfer, and sharing of knowledge: relying primarily on research, training and teaching activities. It has {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.unesco.org/general/eng/about/index.shtml"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 headquarters}} in Paris, France.\
\
\
\'c9 oggi il compleanno dell\'92UNESCO. Nel 1946 l\'92Organizzazione della cultura, della scienza e dell\'92educazione delle Nazioni unite \'e9 divenuta effettiva. \
Il programma \'e9 stato firmato da 37 nazioni a Londra il 16 Novembre 1945. \
Il preambolo della costituzione dichiara \'93Dato che la guerra inizia nella mente degli uomini, \'e9 nella mente degli uomini che le difese della pace devono essere costruite\'94.\
\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}