{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red24\green25\blue27;\red230\green230\blue230;\red246\green247\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;\cssrgb\c92157\c92157\c92157;\cssrgb\c97255\c97647\c98039;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  January 12,  1665\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Pierre de Fermat (1601-1665) died. French mathematician who has been called the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Biographies/Fermat.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 founder}} of the modern theory of numbers. Together with Rene Descartes, Fermat was one of the two leading mathematicians of the first half of the 17th century. He anticipated differential calculus with his method of finding the greatest and least ordinates of curved lines. He proposed the famous Fermat's Last Theorem while studying the work of the ancient Greek mathematician Diophantus. He wrote in pencil in the margin, \'93I have discovered a truly remarkable proof which this margin is too small to contain,\'94 that when the Pythagorean theorem is altered to read a
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \super n
\fs32 \nosupersub  + b
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \super n
\fs32 \nosupersub  = c
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \super n
\fs32 \nosupersub , the new equation cannot be solved in integers for any value of n greater than 2.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1 Moriva oggi Pierre de Fermat (1601-1665), il geniale matematico francese considerato il padre della moderna teoria dei numeri. 
\f2 \cf5 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf5 \cb7 Insieme a Ren\'e9 Descartes (italianizzato Cartesio), Fermat fu uno dei due principali matematici della prima met\'e0 del XVII secolo. Ha anticipato il calcolo differenziale con il suo metodo per trovare le ordinate maggiori e minori delle linee curve. Ha proposto il famoso ultimo teorema di Fermat mentre studiava il lavoro dell'antico matematico greco Diofanto. Scrisse a matita a margine del libro che stava leggendo: "Ho scoperto una dimostrazione davvero notevole che questo margine \'e8 troppo piccolo per contenere", che quando il teorema di Pitagora viene alterato per leggere a^n + b^n = c^n, la nuova equazione non pu\'f2 essere risolta in numeri interi per qualsiasi valore di n maggiore di 2.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: todayinsci}