{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2509
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Today is the birthday of Evangelista Torricelli (1608-1647). Born in Faenza, Italy, Torricelli was an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://galileo.imss.firenze.it/multi/torricel/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Italian}} physicist and mathematician who invented the barometer and whose work in geometry aided in the eventual development of integral calculus. Inspired by Galileo's writings, he wrote a treatise on mechanics, 
\f1\i De Motu
\f0\i0  ("Concerning Movement"), which impressed Galileo. He also developed techniques for producing telescope {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.na.infn.it/Museum-old/Optics-1.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 lenses}}. The barometer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://galileo.imss.firenze.it/multi/torricel/etorat34.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 experiment}} using "quicksilver" filling a tube then inverted into a dish of mercury, carried out in Spring 1644, made Torricelli's name famous. The Italian scientists merit was, above all, to admit that the effective cause of the resistance presented by nature to the creation of a vacuum (in the inverted tube above the mercury) was probably due to the weight of air.\
\
\'c9 oggi il compleanno di Evangelista Torricelli (1608-1647), matematico e fisico italiano. Nato a Faenza, il nome di Torricelli \'e8 legato all\'92invenzione del primo barometro. Ha inoltre dato fondamentali contributi alla matematica, in particolare nell\'92ambito della geometria, il quale ha poi influenzato pesantemente Galileo e ha, infine, attraverso Newton, alla nascita del calcolo integrale. \
Il famoso esperimento con la colonnina di mercurio, che ora porta il suo nome, fu ideato nel 1644. Il suo merito fu, tra le altre cose, di ammettere che la causa effettiva della riluttanza della Natura a creare il vuoto \'e8 dovuto essenzialmente al peso dell\'92aria.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}