{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55357 \u56524  
\f1 July
\f0  4
\f1 ,
\f0  1934
\f1 .
\f2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f3\b  On this day, Marie Curie
\f4\b0  (1867-1934) died. Marie Sklodowska Curie was a Polish-French chemist and physicist whose celebrated experiments (1898) on uranium minerals led to discovery of two new elements. First she separated polonium, and then radium a few months later. The quantity of radon in radioactive equilibrium with a gram of radium was named a curie. With {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/12/12_15.htm#BecquerelHenri"}}{\fldrslt Henri Becquerel}} and her husband, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/5/5_15.htm#CuriePierre"}}{\fldrslt Pierre Curie}}, she was awarded the 1903 Nobel Prize for Physics. Later, she also was sole winner of a second Nobel Prize in 1911, this time in Chemistry. Her family won five Nobel awards in two generations. She died of radiation poisoning from her pioneering work before the need for protection was known.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f4 \'c9 oggi l\'92anniversario della morte di Marie Curie (1867-1934), leggendaria fisica e chimica polacca, naturalizzata francese. \'c9 al momento una delle pochissime persone ad aver vinto il Nobel per due volte e l\'92unica donna. I suoi lavori pionieristici sui materiali radioattivi sono anche stati la causa della sua morte. \
\'c9 ad oggi considerata una delle pi\'f9 grandi scienziate donne della storia, se non la pi\'f9 grande.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia\
 }