{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red146\green26\blue32;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red9\green47\blue157;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c64695\c16422\c16341;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  May 2, 1519.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) died. Italian painter, draftsman, sculptor, architect, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://micro.magnet.fsu.edu/optics/timeline/people/davinci.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 engineer}}. Da Vinci was a great engineer and inventor who designed buildings, bridges, canals, forts and war machines. He kept huge notebooks sketching his ideas. Among these, he was fascinated by birds and flying and his sketches include such fantastic designs as flying machines. These drawings demonstrate a genius for mechanical invention and insight into scientific inquiry, truly centuries ahead of their time. His greater fame lies in being one of the greatest painters of all times, best known for such paintings as the 
\f2\i Mona Lisa
\f1\i0  and 
\f2\i The Last Supper
\f1\i0 .\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1 In questo giorno, moriva Leonardo Da Vinci (1452-1519). 
\f3\fs28 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uomo_universale"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb6 Uomo d'ingegno e talento universale}}\cb6  del {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rinascimento_italiano"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Rinascimento}}, considerato uno dei pi\'f9 grandi {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genio_(filosofia)"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 geni}} dell'umanit\'e0, incarn\'f2 in pieno lo spirito della sua epoca, portandolo alle maggiori forme di espressione nei pi\'f9 disparati campi dell'arte e della conoscenza: fu infatti {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scienziato"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 scienziato}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filosofo"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 filosofo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architettura"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 architetto}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pittura"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 pittore}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scultura"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 scultore}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disegno"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 disegnatore}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trattato_(opera)"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 trattatista}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenografo"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 scenografo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anatomia"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 anatomista}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Botanica"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 botanico}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Musicista"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 musicista}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingegneria"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 ingegnere}} e {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progettista"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 progettista}}: 
\f1\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 progett\'f2 edifici, forti, canali e armi da guerra. Raccolse tutte le sue idee in grossi quaderni che ancora oggi rivelano idee avveniristiche che anticiparono di secoli i loro tempi. Tra le molte, molte idee si concentravano sul volo degli uccelli e sulle macchine in grado di volare. La sua grande fama risiede soprattutto nel fatto di essere uno dei pi\'f9 grandi pittori del suo tempo; sono sue infatti \'93la Monna Lisa\'94 e \'93L\'92ultima cena\'94.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayisci}