{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red146\green26\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c64695\c16422\c16341;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  July 17, 1912.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Henry Poincar\'e9 (1854-1912) died\cb2 . 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
He was a French mathematician, physicist and astronomer who was also a gifted interpreter of science to the public. His Poincar\'e9 Conjecture {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/15/science/15math.html?ex=1313294400&en=dd402d4903387a3f&ei=5088"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 holds}} that if any loop in a given three-dimensional space can be shrunk to a point, the space is equivalent to a sphere. It remained an unsolved problem until Grigori Perelman proved a complete proof in 2003. Poincar\'e9 influenced cosmogony, relativity, and topology. In applied {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Poincare.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 mathematics}} he also studied optics, electricity, telegraphy, capillarity, elasticity, thermodynamics, potential theory, quantum theory, and cosmology. He is often described as the last universalist in mathematics. He studied the three-body-problem in celestial mechanics, and theories of light and electromagnetic waves. He was a co-discoverer (with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/3/3_14.htm#EinsteinAlbert"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Albert Einstein}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/7/7_18.htm#LorentzHendrik"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Hendrik Lorentz}}) of the special theory of relativity.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  In questo giorno moriva Henry Poincar\'e9 (1854-1912). Fu matematico, fisico e astronomo e uno dei pi\'f9 talentuosi divulgatori della scienza al grande pubblico. \'c8 sua la sua \'93Congettura di Poincar\'e9\'94, per cui se ogni curva in uno spazio tridimensionale pu\'f2 essere ristretta a un punto, lo spazio \'e8 equivalente a una sfera. Rimase irrisolta fino al 2003 grazie al lavoro di Grigori Perelmann. \
Poincar\'e9 influenz\'f2 la cosmologia, relativit\'e0 e topologia. In matematica applicata diede contributi all\'92ottica, elettricit\'e0, telegrafia, termodinamica, teorica quantistica e dei potenziali e cosmologia. \'c8 considerato come l\'92ultimo universalista in Matematica.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci  }