{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2708
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green47\blue157;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  March 5, 1827\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Alessandro Volta (1745-1827) died. 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Count Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta was an Italian physicist who invented the electric battery (1800), the first \'a0reliable, sustained supply of current. His voltaic pile used plates of two dissimilar metals and an electrolyte, a number of alternated zinc and silver disks, each separated with porous brine-soaked cardboard. Previously, only discharge of static electricity had been available, so his device enabled new uses of electricity. Volta also invented the electrophorus, the condenser and the electroscope. He contributed to meteorology, studied gases and discovered methane. The volt, a unit of electrical measurement, is named after him.\
\

\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  5 marzo, 1827\

\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2 \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della morte di Alessandro Volta (1745-1827), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimico"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs28 \cf3 \cb4 chimico}}
\f1\fs28 \cf5 \cb4 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisico"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 fisico}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accademico"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 accademico}} e {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rettore_(universit%C3%A0)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 rettore}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italia"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 italiano}}, conosciuto soprattutto per l'invenzione del primo {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generatore_elettrico"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 generatore elettrico}} mai realizzato, la {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pila_(elettrotecnica)"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 pila}}, e per la scoperta del {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gas_metano"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 gas metano}}.\
La sua pila voltaica utilizzava piastre di due metalli dissimili e un elettrolita, una serie di dischi alternati di zinco e argento, ciascuno separato da un cartone poroso imbevuto di salamoia. In precedenza era disponibile solo la scarica di elettricit\'e0 statica, quindi il suo dispositivo permise nuovi usi dell'elettricit\'e0. Volta invent\'f2 anche l'elettroforo, il condensatore e l'elettroscopio. Contribu\'ec alla meteorologia, studi\'f2 i gas e scopr\'ec il metano. Il volt, un'unit\'e0 di misura elettrica, prende il nome da lui.\
\
#anniversariodelgiorno\
#matematica\
#fisica\
#chimica\
#scienza\
#lagaiascienza\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}