{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64695\c16422\c16341;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  April 30, 1777.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855) was born. 
\f2\fs32 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
He was a German mathematician who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mathsong.com/cfgauss/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 transformed}} nearly all areas of mathematics, for which his {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.geocities.com/RainForest/Vines/2977/gauss/english.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 talent}} showed from a very early age. For his {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/history/Mathematicians/Gauss.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 contributions}} to theory in magnetism and electricity, a unit of magnetic field has been named the gauss. He devised the method of least squares in statistics, and his Gaussian error curve remains well-known. He anticipated the SI system in his proposal that physical units should be based on a few absolute units such as length, mass and time. In astronomy, he calculated the orbits of the small planets {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/1/1_01.htm#Ceres"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Ceres}} and Pallas by a new method. 
\f1\fs28 \cf5 \cb6 Sometimes referred to as the 
\f3\i Princeps mathematicorum
\f1\i0  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_language"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Latin}} for '"the foremost of mathematicians"') and "the greatest mathematician since antiquity", Gauss had an exceptional influence in many fields of mathematics and science, and is ranked among history's most influential mathematicians.
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf7 \super \
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1  In questo giorno, nasceva Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855), il grandissimo fisico e matematico tedesco che rivoluzion\'f2 ogni ramo della scienza allora conosciuta. Diede fondamentali contributi alla teoria dell\'92elettro magnetismo, della statica, dell\'92astronomia, della teoria dei numeri, dell\'92analisi, dell\'92algebra e della geometria. Anticip\'f2 addirittura il Sistema Internazionale sostenendo che le unit\'e0 fisiche dovessero basarsi su poche unit\'e0 fondamentali come lunghezza, massa e tempo. Chiamato alle volte \'93princeps mathematicorum\'94 (il principe dei matematici), \'e8 considerato il pi\'f9 grande matematico dall\'92antichit\'e0 ai tempi recenti.\
\
 #AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci }