{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  May 29, 1929.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Peter Ware Higgs (1929-) is born. He is an English theoretical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hepweb.rl.ac.uk/ppUKpics/POW/pr_000105.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 physicist}}, the namesake of the Higgs boson. In the late 1960s, Higgs and others proposed a mechanism that would endow particles with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cern.ch/Public/SCIENCE/massmystery.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 mass}}, even though they appeared originally in a theory - and possibly in the Universe! - with no mass at all. The basic idea is that all particles acquire their mass through interactions with an all-pervading field, called the 
\f2\i Higgs field
\f1\i0 . which is carried by the 
\f2\i Higgs bosons
\f1\i0 . This {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://atlasinfo.cern.ch/Atlas/documentation/EDUC/physics10.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 mechanism}} is an important part of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www2.slac.stanford.edu/vvc/theory/model.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Standard Model}} of particles and forces, for it explains the masses of the carriers of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hepweb.rl.ac.uk/ppUKpics/POW/pr_990113.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 weak force}}, responsible for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://durpdg.dur.ac.uk/lbl/cpep/npe.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 beta-decay}} and for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://gamma.nrl.navy.mil/dap-aps/dapaps/posters/Neu/neu_revised.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 nuclear reactions}} that fuel the Sun.  
\f3\fs28 \cf5 \cb6 On 4 July 2012, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CERN"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 CERN}} announced the discovery of the boson at the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_Hadron_Collider"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Large Hadron Collider}} and the subsequent year Peter Higgs was awarded with the Nobel Prize in Physics.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf5 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f3  In questo giorno nasceva Peter Higgs (1929-). Fisico teorico inglese, \'e8 comunemente noto per il famoso bosone che porta il suo nome. Negli anni 60, Higgs propose un meccanismo secondo il quale le particelle \'93acquisissero\'94 una caratteristica massiva. Questo meccanismo, chiamato poi \'93meccanismo di Higgs\'94, fungeva da tassello mancante tra gli attuali dati sperimentali e la teoria del tempo, secondo cui le particelle non potevano avere massa! Il mediatore di questo meccanismo era un bosone speciale, chiamato poi \'93bosone di Higgs\'94 in suo onore. Una particella con tutte le caratteristiche richieste \'e8 stata rilevata dall\'92LHC al CERN di Ginevra nel 2012, il che valse a Higgs il Premio Nobel l\'92anno seguente.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci\
\
}