{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, 14 September 1752, 
\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Empire"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 British Empire}} adopts the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregorian_calendar"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Gregorian calendar}}, skipping eleven days (the previous day was September 2). The days from September 3 to September 13 (included) never existed in the British calendar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The calendar was developed as a correction to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_calendar"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Julian calendar}}, shortening the average year by 0.0075 days to stop the drift of the calendar with respect to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equinox"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 equinoxes}}.\cb1  \
\
\cb3 The reform was adopted initially by the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_Catholicism"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Catholic}} countries of Europe and their overseas possessions. Over the next three centuries, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protestant_Reformation"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Protestant}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Orthodoxy"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Eastern Orthodox}} countries also moved to what they called the 
\f2\i Improved calendar
\f1\i0 , with Greece being the last European country to adopt the calendar in 1923.
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf5 \super [5]
\fs28 \cf2 \nosupersub  To unambiguously specify a date during the transition period, (or in history texts), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dual_dating"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 dual dating}} is sometimes used to specify both {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Style_and_New_Style_dates"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Old Style and New Style dates}} (abbreviated as O.S and N.S. respectively). Due to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Globalization"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 globalization}} in the 20th century, the calendar has also been adopted by most non-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_civilization"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Western}} countries for civil purposes.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1 Il 14 Settembre 1752 l\'92Impero britannico adottava il calendario Gregoriano a scapito di quello Giuliano. La riforma prevedeva un adattamento della lunghezza di un anno di circa 0.0075 giorni per fermare la deriva del calendario rispetto agli equinozi. \
La riforma ebbe luogo prima nella nazioni europee cattoliche e sui loro possedimenti oltreoceano. Nei secoli seguenti, anche grazie alla globalizzazione, anche nazioni non europee si sono adattate al calendario rendendolo oggigiorno lo standard internazionale. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}