{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green25\blue27;
\red246\green247\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;
\cssrgb\c97255\c97647\c98039;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1\b  February 24, 1810\
\

\f0\b0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1\b  On this day, Henry Cavendish(1731-1810) died. He was 
\f2\b0 an English chemist and physicist who conducted experiments with diverse interests in his private laboratory. Most notably, he determined the mass and density of the Earth. He investigated the properties of hydrogen and carbon dioxide, including comparing their density to that of air. Cavendish also showed that water was a compound and measured the specific heat of various substances. His manuscripts (published 1879) revealed discoveries he made in electrostatics before {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/6/6_14.htm#CoulombCharles"}}{\fldrslt Coulomb}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/3/3_16.htm#OhmGeorg"}}{\fldrslt Ohm}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/9/9_22.htm#FaradayMichael"}}{\fldrslt Faraday}} - including deducing the inverse square law of electrostatic attraction and repulsion. He also found specific inductive capacity. His family name is attached to the Cavendish Laboratory (founded 1871, funded by a later family member) at Cambridge University.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  Moriva oggi Henri Cavendish (1731-1810),
\f3\fs56 \cf4 \cb5  chimico e fisico inglese che condusse esperimenti con diversi interessi nel suo laboratorio privato. In particolare, ha determinato la massa e la densit\'e0 della Terra. Studi\'f2 le propriet\'e0 dell'idrogeno e dell'anidride carbonica, incluso il confronto della loro densit\'e0 con quella dell'aria. Cavendish ha anche dimostrato che l'acqua era un composto e ha misurato il calore specifico di varie sostanze. 
\f2\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Inglese di famiglia aristocratica, leg\'f2 il suo nome agli studi di elettrostatica che comp\'ec indipendentemente da Coulomb, Ohm e Faraday e che gli permisero di dedurre la legge dell\'92inverso del quadrato di attrazione/repulsione delle cariche elettriche.\
A suo nome \'e8 intitolato il laboratorio Cavendish all\'92Universit\'e0 di Cambridge.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}