{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64695\c16422\c16341;
\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  15 May, 1859\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Pierre Curie (1859-1906) was born. French physical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/1903/pierre-curie.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 chemist}} and cowinner of the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1903. His studies of radioactive substances were made together with his wife, Marie Curie, whom he married in 1895. They were achieved under conditions of much hardship - barely adequate laboratory facilities and under the stress of having to do much teaching in order to earn their livelihood. Together, they {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/1903/press.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 discovered}} radium and polonium in their investigation of radioactivity by fractionation of pitchblende (announced in 1898). Later they did much to elucidate the properties of radium and its transformation products. Their work in this era formed the basis for much of the subsequent research in nuclear physics and chemistry.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1  In questo giorno, nasceva Pierre Curie (1856-1906). Fu un fisico e chimico francese e
\f2\fs28 \cf5 \cb6  pioniere nei campi della {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cristallografia"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 cristallografia}}, del {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnetismo"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 magnetismo}}, della {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piezoelettricit%C3%A0"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 piezoelettricit\'e0}} e della {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radioattivit%C3%A0"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 radioattivit\'e0}}. Nel 1903 ricevette il {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premio_Nobel_per_la_Fisica"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Premio Nobel per la Fisica}} con sua moglie, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie_Curie"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 Maria Sk\uc0\u322 odowska}} Curie, per i loro studi sulla radioattivit\'e0 nonch\'e9 per la scoperta del Radio e del Polonio. In particolare, essi scoprirono che la radioattivit\'e0 \'e8 un fenomeno nucleare (atomico) e non molecolare, come si credeva al tempo.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci\
 }