{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14540\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807  
\f1 Today
\f0  
\f1 is
\f0  
\f1 the
\f0  
\f1 birthday
\f0  
\f1 of
\f0  
\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Niels Henrik Abel
\f3\b0  (5 August 1802 \'96 6 April 1829), Norwegian {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematician"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 mathematician}} who made pioneering contributions in a variety of fields. His most famous single result is the first complete proof demonstrating that is impossible to find a general solution for polynomials of degree greater than 4, a problem unsolved for over 250 years. \
He was also an innovator in the field of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_functions"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 elliptic functions}}, discoverer of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abelian_function"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Abelian functions}}, that is, functions that commute with each others. \
Despite his enormous contribution, the majority of his results were carried out during only 6 years of work. Infact, Abel died from Tuberculosis at the age of 26.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Regarding Abel, the French mathematician {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Hermite"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Charles Hermite}} said: "Abel has left mathematicians enough to keep them busy for five hundred years."\
\
His contribution has been recognised by the institution of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abel_Prize"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Abel Prize}} in mathematics, originally proposed in 1899, to complement the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nobel_Prize"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Nobel Prizes}}.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825  
\f1 Si
\f0  
\f1 celebra
\f0  
\f1 oggi
\f0  
\f1 l\'92anniversario
\f0  
\f1 della
\f0  
\f1 nascita
\f0  
\f1 di
\f0  
\f1 Niels Abel, incredibile matematico norvegese morto giovanissimo all\'92et\'e1 di 26 anni. I suoi contributi si sono concentrati sopratutto nel ramo dell\'92algebra e della teoria dei gruppi. Il suo risultato pi\'f9 famoso \'e9 la dimostrazione dell\'92impossibilit\'e1 di trovare una formula risolutrice per polinomi di grado superiore al quarto. \
Oggi, gli operatori che commutano tra loro sono chiamati \'93abeliani\'94 in suo onore.\
\
Dal 2003 \'e9 stato anche istituita la Medaglia Abel, un premio per soli matematici originariamente proposta come equivalente del Premio Nobel. 
\f0 \
\
#
\f1 AnniversaryOfTheDay
\f0 \
#
\f1 Phi
\f0 6 #
\f1 physics
\f0  #
\f1 math
\f0   #
\f1 science
\f0  \

\f1 @erikpillon
\f0 \
\

\f1 Source:
\f0  
\f1 Wikipedia}