{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red189\green80\blue5;\red146\green26\blue31;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c79598\c39470\c0;\cssrgb\c64684\c16372\c16210;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  June 8, 1955.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Tim Berners Lee (1955-) was born. He was an English computer scientist who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Berners-Lee"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 invented}} the World Wide Web and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/Longer.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 director}} of the World Wide Web Consortium, which oversees its continued development. In 1984, he took up a fellowship at CERN, to work on distributed real-time systems for scientific data acquisition and system control. While there, he {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,986354,00.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 proposed}} (1989) a global hypertext project, to be known as the World Wide Web, which permitted people to collaborate by sharing knowledge in a web of hypertext documents. On 6 Aug 1991, the first World Wide Web site was made available to the Internet at large, giving information on a browser and how to set up a Web server. He then expanded its reach, always nonprofit, to become an international mass medium.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1  In questo giorno nasceva Tim Berners Lee (1955-), informatico americano considerato \'93il padre dell\'92internet\'94. Mentre era al CERN nel 1984, Lee cominci\'f2 a lavorare a un sistema di collegamento ipertestuale globale, chiamato World Wide Web (www) e poi finalmente pubblicato nel 1989, che permise a persone da tutto il mondo di collaborare e condividere informazioni attraverso una rete di documenti ipertestuali. Il 6 Agosto 1991, il primo sito web venne reso disponibile nell\'92Internet dando informazioni su un Browser e come installare un web server. \
\
Tutto il resto \'e8 ormai storia. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci}