{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2509
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Today is the birthday of \'c9variste Galois (1811-1832), French mathematician famous for his {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Galois.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 contributions}} to the part of higher algebra known as group theory. His theory solved many long-standing unanswered questions, including the impossibility of trisecting the angle and squaring the circle. Galois died, at age 20, the day after being fatally shot in a duel on 30 May 1832. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://godel.ph.utexas.edu/~tonyr/galois.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 reasons}} for the duel remain enigmatic, though related to a love affair. The night before the duel, Galois anticipated his death and wrote in feverish haste his will and notes on the thoughts of mathematics he wanted to remain accessible. It became the focus for a Republican rally followed by several days of riots. There are hints that Galois had begun to develop the theory of algebraic functions, which had to wait another 40 years for the German mathematician {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/9/9_17.htm#RiemannBernhard"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Bernhard Riemann}} to complete. \
\
\'c9 oggi il compleanno di \'c9variste Galois \cb2 (1811-1832)\cb2 , intelligentissimo matematico francese dalla vita frenetica tumultuosa. \'c9 noto agli specialisti per i contributi fondamentali che ha dato alla parte della matematica pi\'f9 astratta, quella della teoria dei gruppi, ma anche per aver risolto il problema millenario della quadratura del cerchio. \
Oggi la teoria di Galois, la branca della matematica che si connette la possibili permutazioni di un gruppo finito con le soluzioni di un polinomio, \'e9 chiamata cos\'ec in suo onore. \
La sua eccezionalit\'e0 risiede per\'f3 nel fatto che tutto questo fu scoperto quando non era nemmeno ventenne. Mori infatti all\'92et\'e1 di 20 anni per le complicazioni delle ferite subite in un duello per difendere l\'92onore di una donna. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}