{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;\red24\green25\blue27;
\red246\green247\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;
\cssrgb\c97255\c97647\c98039;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  January 2, 1920.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  Today is the anniversary of the birth of Isaac Asimov (1920-1992), the American author and biochemist, who was a prolific {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sciencefictionbooks.net/page/isaac_asimov_biography_A2.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 writer}} of science fiction and of science books for the layperson. \
\
Born in Petrovichi, Russia, he emigrated with his family to New York City at age three. He entered Columbia University at the age of 15 and at 18 sold his first story to 
\f2\i Amazing Stories
\f1\i0 . After earning a Ph.D., he taught biochemistry at Boston University School of Medicine after 1949. By 18 Mar 1941, Asimov had already {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.biography.com/people/isaac-asimov-9190737"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 written}} 31 stories, sold 17, and 14 had been published. As an author, lecturer, and broadcaster of astonishing range, he is most admired as a popularizer of science (
\f2\i The Collapsing Universe;
\f1\i0 1977) and a science fiction writer (
\f2\i I, Robot;\'a0
\f1\i0 1950). \
\
He coined the term \'93robotics.\'94\'a0He {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://directory.google.com/Top/Arts/Literature/Authors/A/Asimov,_Isaac/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 published}} about 500 volumes.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f3\fs56 \cf4 \cb5 Oggi \'e8 l'anniversario della nascita di Isaac Asimov (1920-1992), autore e biochimico americano, prolifico scrittore di fantascienza e di libri di scienza per laici.\
\
Nato a Petrovichi, in Russia, \'e8 emigrato con la sua famiglia a New York City all'et\'e0 di tre anni. Entr\'f2 alla Columbia University all'et\'e0 di 15 anni e a 18 vendette la sua prima storia a Amazing Stories. Dopo aver conseguito un dottorato di ricerca, ha insegnato biochimica alla Boston University School of Medicine dopo il 1949. \
\
Entro il 18 marzo 1941, Asimov aveva gi\'e0 scritto 31 racconti, ne aveva venduti 17 e 14 erano stati pubblicati. Come autore, conferenziere ed emittente di una gamma sorprendente, \'e8 molto ammirato come divulgatore della scienza (The Collapsing Universe; 1977) e scrittore di fantascienza (I, Robot; 1950).\
\
\'c8 famoso per aver coniato il termine "robotica" e aver pubblicato circa 500 volumi.
\f1\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: todayinsci and goalcast}