{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524  
\f1 May
\f0  06
\f1 ,
\f0  1872
\f1 .
\f0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On
\f0  
\f1 this day, Willem de Sitter (1872-1934) was born. He was a 
\f2 Dutch {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Sitter.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 mathematician}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.phys-astro.sonoma.edu/BruceMedalists/BM2C-G.html#26"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 astronomer}}, and cosmologist who developed theoretical models of the universe based on Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity. He worked extensively on the motions of the satellites of Jupiter, determining their masses and orbits from decades of observations. He redetermined the fundamental constants of astronomy and determined the variation of the rotation of the earth. He also performed statistical studies of the distribution and motions of stars, but today he is best known for his contributions to cosmology. His 1917 solution to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/3/3_14.htm#EinsteinAlbert"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Albert Einstein's}} field equations showed that a near-empty universe would expand. Later, he and Einstein found an expanding universe solution without space curvature.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f3 \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Willem de Sitter (1872-1934), matematico e astronomo olandese che diede fondamentali contributi alla cosmologia. 
\fs28 \cf5 \cb6 Nel {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/1932"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 1932}}, insieme ad {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 Albert Einstein}}, scrisse un articolo su dati cosmologici e curvatura dell'universo.\cb1  \cb6 Notevoli gli studi sulla teoria della relativit\'e0 generale e sulle applicazioni all'espansione dell'universo e alle sue origini. Introdusse un modello di universo, definito quindi {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universo_di_de_Sitter"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Universo di de Sitter}}, sferico nello {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spazio-tempo"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 spazio-tempo}} avente una superficie limite a distanza finita.\cb1  \cb6 Svolse importanti studi sulle orbite dei satelliti di {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giove_(astronomia)"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Giove}} e diede contributi nello studio della {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Velocit%C3%A0_della_luce"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 velocit\'e0 della luce}}. De Sitter mostr\'f2 che la velocit\'e0 della luce proveniente da due stelle, di cui una in allontanamento ed una in avvicinamento al punto di osservazione, rimane costante ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradosso_di_De_Sitter"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Paradosso di De Sitter}}) evidenziando che la velocit\'e0 della luce \'e8 una costante universale e non dipende dal moto della sorgente emettente. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}