{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524  
\f1 July
\f0  22
\f1 ,
\f0  1884
\f1 .
\f0 \
\
\uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f2 Today is the anniversary of the birth of Gregor #Mendel (1822-1884), 
\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56806 \u55356 \u56825 
\f3\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Austrian botanist, geneticist and monk who pioneered in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregor_Mendel"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 study}} of heredity. He spent his adult life with the Augustinian monastery in Brunn, where as a geneticist, botanist and plant experimenter, he was the first to lay the mathematical foundation of the science of genetics, in what came to be called Mendelism. Over the period 1856-63, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.netspace.org/MendelWeb/MWtoc.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Mendel}} grew and analyzed over 28,000 pea plants. He carefully {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hyperion.advanced.org/20465/mendl.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 studied}} for each their plant height, pod shape, pod color, flower position, seed color, seed shape and flower color. He made two very important generalizations from his pea experiments, known today as the Laws of Heredity. He read a paper on his studies on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/2/2_08.htm#MendelGregorPaperFirstRead"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 8 Feb 1865}} to the Br\'fcnn Society for Natural Sciences in Moravia. 
\f2\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 The profound significance of Mendel's work was not recognized until the turn of the 20th century (more than three decades later) with the rediscovery of his laws. 
\f3\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 Mendel coined the present day terms in genetics: 
\f4\i recessiveness
\f3\i0  and 
\f4\i dominance
\f3\i0 .\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f3 \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Gregor #Mendel (1822-1884),
\f2\fs28 \cf4 \cb5  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biologo"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 biologo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matematico"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 matematico}} e {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordine_di_Sant%27Agostino"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 monaco agostiniano}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repubblica_Ceca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 ceco}} (allora Austria) di {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lingua_tedesca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 lingua tedesca}}, considerato il precursore della moderna {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetica"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 genetica}} per le sue osservazioni sui {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caratteri_ereditari"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 caratteri ereditari}}. \
Sebbene il suo lavoro fu a lungo non apprezzato, all\'92alba del XX secolo le sue leggi furono riscoperte e sperimentalmente verificate. Oggi la scienza della genetica \'e9 chiamata \'93mendelismo\'94 in suo onore. }