{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 19, 1473\
\
On this day, Nicolaus Copernicus (1473-1543) was born. 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Polish astronomer who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.phy.hr/~dpaar/fizicari/xcopern.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 proposed}} the heliocentric {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://web.archive.org/web/20000706225853/http://www.polamjournal.com/library/copernicus.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 model}} of the Solar System in which all the planets orbit around the Sun at the centre. He recognized\'a0that the Earth is a planet which, besides orbiting the Sun annually, also turns once daily on its own axis; and that very slow, long-term changes in the direction of this axis account for the precession of the equinoxes. He understood the immense distance of the stars. He wrote his ideas in a book, 
\f3\i De Orbium Coelestium Revolutionibus
\f2\i0 . Although completed in 1530, he requested it be published after his death in 1543. Until 1758, the Roman Catholic Church banned the book as contrary to religious dogma.\
\
\'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Niccol\'f2 Copernico (1473-1543). 
\f1\fs28 \cf5 \cb6 \'c8 stato un {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astronomo"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 astronomo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matematico"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 matematico}} e {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presbitero"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 presbitero}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polonia"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 polacco}}; laureato in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diritto_canonico"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 diritto canonico}} presso l'{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universit%C3%A0_di_Ferrara"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Universit\'e0 di Ferrara}} nel 1503, \'e8 famoso per aver propugnato, difeso e alla fine definitivamente promosso l'evidenza {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eliocentrismo"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 eliocentrica}} contro il {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sistema_geocentrico"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 geocentrismo}} fino ad allora sostenuto nel mondo cristiano. Bench\'e9 non fosse stato il primo a formulare tale teoria, fu lo scienziato che pi\'f9 rigorosamente riusc\'ec a dimostrarla tramite procedimenti matematici. Copernico fu anche {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacerdozio"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 ecclesiastico}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diritto"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 giurista}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governatore_(burocrazia_moderna)"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 governatore}} e {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medicina"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 medico}}.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}