{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  July 24, 1974.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807  
\f2 On
\f0  
\f2 this
\f0  
\f2 day,
\f0  
\f2 Sir James Chadwick (1891-1974) died. He\'92s famously renowned for being the English physicists discoverer of the Neutron, for which
\f3\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/1935/chadwick.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 received}} the Nobel Prize for Physics (1935). He {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://search.biography.com/print_record.pl?id=7987"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 studied}} at Cambridge, and in Berlin under Geiger, then worked at the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/6/6_16.htm#LaboratoryCavendish"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Cavendish Laboratory}} with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/8/8_30.htm#RutherfordErnest"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Rutherford}}, where he investigated the structure of the atom. He worked on the scattering of alpha particles and on nuclear disintegration. By bombarding beryllium with alpha particles, Chadwick {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://leifi.physik.uni-muenchen.de/web_ph12/originalarbeiten/chadwick/chadwick_neutr.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 discovered}} the neutron - a neutral particle in the atom's nucleus - for which he received the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1935. In 1932, Chadwick coined the name \'93neutron,\'94 which he {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/2/2_07.htm#Neutron"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 described}} in an article in the journal 
\f4\i Nature. 
\f3\i0 He led the UK's work on the atomic bomb in WW II, and was knighted in 1945.
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825  
\f2 In
\f0  
\f2 questo
\f0  
\f2 giorno
\f0  
\f2 moriva Sir James Chadwick (1891-1974), geniale fisico inglese scopritore del neutrone (scoperta che gli valse il Premio Nobel per la Fisica nel 1935). Cavendish studi\'f2 prima con Geiger a Berlino e poi con Rutherford a Cambridge. Nel 1932, bombardando un foglio di berillio con particelle alpha, scopr\'ec il neutrone e gli diede il nome che tutti noi usiamo. Durante la seconda guerra mondiale Chadwick guid\'f2 il programma inglese per l\'92atomica e divenne Cavaliere nel 1945.
\f0  \
\
#
\f2 AnniversaryOfTheDay
\f0 \
#
\f2 Phi
\f0 6 #
\f2 physics
\f0  #
\f2 math
\f0   #
\f2 science
\f0  \

\f2 @erikpillon
\f0 \
\

\f2 Source:
\f0  
\f2 Wikipedia & todayinsci}