{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 13, 1805\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Peter Gustav Dirichlet (1805-1859) was born. 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
German mathematician who made valuable\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Dirichlet.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 contributions}}\'a0contributions to number theory, analysis, and mechanics. Dirichlet is best known for his papers on conditions for the convergence of trigonometric series and the use of the series to represent arbitrary functions. He also proposed in 1837 the modern definition of a function. In mechanics he investigated the equilibrium of systems and potential theory. This led him to the Dirichlet problem concerning harmonic functions with given boundary conditions. Dirichlet is considered the founder of the theory of Fourier series, having corrected the earlier mistakes of other workers on Fourier's writings. One of his students was {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/9/9_17.htm#RiemannBernhard"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Riemann}}. In 1855, he succeeded {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/4/4_30.htm#GaussCarl"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Carl Friedrich Gauss}} at the University of G\'f6ttingen.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2 \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Peter Gustav Dirichlet (1805-1859), matematico tedesco che ha dato fondamentali contributi alla teoria dei numeri, all\'92analisi e alla meccanica. Le \'93condizioni al bordo di Dirichlet\'94 nello studio delle equazioni differenziali sono chiamate cos\'ec in suo onore. A lui si deve anche la definizione formale di \'93funzione\'94.\
Dirichlet \'e8 anche considerato il padre della teorie delle serie di Fourier, avendo corretto i primi errori di altri colleghi sugli scritti di Fourier. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}