{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11440\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 22, 1857\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (1857-1894) was born. He was a German physicist who was the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.acmi.net.au/AIC/HERTZ_BIO.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 first}} to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sparkmuseum.com/HERTZ.HTM"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 broadcast}} and receive radio waves. He studied under {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/3/3_12.htm#KirchhoffGustav"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Kirchhoff}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/8/8_31.htm#HelmholtzHermann"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Helmholtz}} in Berlin, and became professor at Bonn in 1889. His main {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.corrosion-doctors.org/Biographies/HertzBio.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 work}} was on electromagnetic waves (1887). Hertz {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ee.umd.edu/~taylor/frame7.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 generated}} electric waves by means of the oscillatory discharge of a condenser through a loop provided with a spark gap, and then detecting them with a similar type of circuit. Hertz's condenser was a pair of metal rods, placed end to end with a small gap for a spark between them. Hertz was also the first to discover the photoelectric effect. The unit of frequency - one cycle per second - is named after him. Hertz died of blood poisoning in 1894 at the age of 37.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1 \'c8 oggi il compleanno di Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (1857-1894). \'c8 stato un fisico tedesco ed \'e8 stato il primo a trasmettere e ricevere onde radio. Studi\'f2 sotto la supervisione di Kirchhoff e Helmoltz a Berlino e divenne professore a Bonn nel 1889. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia & todayinsci}