{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red35\green41\blue42;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c18431\c21176\c21961;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  January 24, 1862\cb1 \
\

\f0 \cb3 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day David #Hilbert twas born (1862-1943). German mathematician and one of the most influential and universal mathematicians of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Hilbert discovered and developed a broad range of fundamental ideas in many areas, including invariant theory, the calculus of variations, commutative algebra, algebraic number theory, the foundations of geometry, spectral theory of operators and its application to integral equations, mathematical physics, and foundations of mathematics (particularly proof theory).\cb1 \
\cb3 He accomplished also to reduced geometry to a series of axioms and\'a0contributed\'a0substantially to the establishment of the formalistic foundations of mathematics. In his book,\'a0Foundations of Geometry,\'a0he presented the first complete set of axioms since Euclid.\'a0His work in 1909 on integral equations led to 20th-century research in functional analysis (in which functions are studied as groups.) \cb1 \
\cb3 A famous example of his leadership in mathematics is his 1900 presentation of a collection of problems that set the course for much of the mathematical research of the 20th century.\cb1 \
\cb3 Today Hilbert's name is often best remembered through the concept of Hilbert space in quantum physics, a space of infinite dimensions.\cb1 \
\

\f0 \cb3 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f1 \'c8 oggi il compleanno di David Hilbert (1852-1943), il grandissimo matematico tedesco che diede enormi contributi in svariate branche della matematica e della fisica matematica: dalla teoria delle equazioni differenziali all\'92assiomatizzazione della matematica, dalla teoria dei gruppi al calcolo delle variazioni.\cb1 \
\cb3 Oggi il suo nome \'e8 legato agli spazi di Hilbert, spazi infinito dimensionale ampiamente utilizzati nella meccanica quantistica. \cb1 \
\cb3 Uno degli esempi pi\'f9 importanti della sua leadership \'e8 la collezione di problemi da lui pubblicata che indirizz\'f2 gran parte  della ricerca matematica del XX secolo.\cb1 \
\cb3  \cb1 \
\cb3 #AnniversaryOfTheDay\cb1 \
\cb3 #Phi6 #physics #math  #science \cb1 \
\cb3 @erikpillon\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Source: Wikipedia\cb1 \
}