{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  February 28, 1901\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1 On this day, Linus Pauling (1901-1994) was born. 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Linus Carl Pauling was an American chemist, physicist and author who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.accessexcellence.org/AB/BC/Linus_Pauling.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 applied}} quantum mechanics to the study of molecular structures, particularly in connection with chemical bonding. Pauling was the only person ever to win two unshared Nobel prizes. The first was the Nobel Prize for Chemistry awarded in 1954 for charting the chemical underpinnings of life itself. In addition, because of his work for nuclear peace, he received the Nobel Prize for Peace in 1962. He is remembered also for his strong belief in the health benefits of large doses of vitamin C.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  \'c8 oggi l\'92anniversario della nascita di Linus Pauling (1901-1994). Chimico e fisico americano, applic\'f2 la meccanica quantistica allo studio delle strutture molecolari, in particolare allo studio dei legami molecolari. Pauling \'e8 stato anche il primo a vincere due Premi Nobel non condivisi con nessun altro. Il primo fu nel 1954 in Chimica. Ricevette inoltre il premio della Pace per il suo lavoro contro le armi nucleari. \
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Wikipedia}