{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red146\green26\blue32;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \uc0\u55357 \u56524 
\f1  June 10, 1836.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56812 \u55356 \u56807 
\f1  On this day, Andr\'e9-Marie Amp\'e8re (1775-1836) died. He was a 
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
French mathematician, physicist and chemist who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Ampere.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 founded}} and named the science of electrodynamics, now known as electromagnetism. His interests included mathematics, metaphysics, physics and chemistry. In mathematics he worked on partial differential equations. Amp\'e8re made significant contributions to chemistry. In 1811 he suggested that an anhydrous acid prepared two years earlier was a compound of hydrogen with an unknown element, analogous to chlorine, for which he suggested the name fluorine. He produced a classification of elements in 1816. Amp\'e8re also worked on the wave theory of light. By the early 1820's, Amp\'e8re was working on a combined theory of electricity and magnetism, after hearing about {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://todayinsci.com/8/8_14.htm#OerstedHans"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Hans Oersted}}'s experiments.\
\

\f0 \uc0\u55356 \u56814 \u55356 \u56825 
\f2  Ricorre oggi l\'92anniversario della morte di Andr\'e9-Marie Amp\'e8re (1775-1836), fisico francese che fond\'f2 l\'92elettrodinamica, oggi conosciuta anche col nome di elettromagnetismo. I suoi interessi includevano anche la matematica, la metafisica e la chimica: in ognuno di questi campi, infatti, riusc\'ec a dare importanti contributi.\
\
#AnniversaryOfTheDay\
#Phi6 #physics #math  #science \
@erikpillon\
\
Source: Todayinsci}